.TH "PASSWD" "6" "" "" "File formats"
.SH "NAME"
passwd \- password file
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Passwd
is a text file containing a list of the system's accounts,
specifying for each account the user name, user ID, account
name,
group ID, home directory, shell, capabilities, and environment
variable path.
It should have general read permission (many utilities
use it to map user IDs to user names), but write access only for the
superuser.
.PP 
If you create a new login, put a star in the password field,
and then edit the corresponding entry in
I /vsta/etc/shadow
to establish the actual password.
.PP 
There is one entry per line, with the format:
.sp
.RS
username:password:UID:GID:name:capability:directory:environment:shell
.RE
.sp
The field descriptions are:
.sp
.RS
.TP 1.0in
.I username
.br
The name of the user on the system. This is what you enter to the login program.
.TP 
.I password
.br
The account's login password. Passwords are not actually stored in
.BR  passwd (6),
but rather in
.BR  shadow (6).
This field should be set to a star ("*").
.TP 
.I UID
.br
The numerical user ID. In UNIX, this would define what files you can access,
but not so in VSTa. Rather, in VSTa, the "UID" is simply that: an ID
related to one particular logged in user.
It is used to answer questions like "who created this file?",
but not "who can read this file?".
.TP 
.I GID
.br
The group ID indicates a specific group id
.BR  group (6).
By being a member of a particular group, you get capabilities.
So a set of capabilities suitable for some particular group of
accounts is described in
.BR  group (6)
for a given group ID. Then, each user account has the same group ID,
and they all
share those capabilities.
.TP 
.I name
.br
This field is only used for informational purposes.
It contains the real name of the account's owner.
.TP 
.I capability
.br
Capabilities granted to this account.
The capability name is hierarchical, and is a reference to the
numerical counterpart, looked up via
.BR  ids (6).
After you log in, your capabilities are the sum of this one,
plus any additional ones granted due to your group ID.
.TP 
.I directory
.br
the user's $HOME directory.
.TP 
.I environment
.br
Environment path.
Very much unlike UNIX, your environment is kept in an external server,
which is global to the system.
A given user's environment variables exist under /env with the given name.
Each variable shows up as a simple file within that directory.  Thus,
if you wish to know the $HOME of the "joe" account, "cat /env/joe/HOME"
would access this information, assuming you possess sufficient
capabilities to access the file.
.TP 
.I shell
.br
The program run at login (if empty,
.BR /bin/sh
is used).
If set to a non\-existing executable, the user will be unable to login
through
.BR login (1).
.RE
.SH "FILES"
.I /vsta/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR group (6),
.BR ids (6),
.BR shadow (6)
